john@hjsoft.com 27 Oakgrove Ln Millersville PA 17551 717.808.0917

-   CONTRACTOR, November 2014–Present. e&e Consulting Services /
    PennState Hershey Medical Center. Hershey, PA.

    -   Updated, maintained, and replaced legacy Java web applications
        for identity management with modern Grails applications.

    -   Replaced an old batch identity management system based on Perl
        and Java with a new system based on Groovy frameworks and script
        applications running on Windows and Solaris.

    -   Introduced automated testing using Spock, Geb, Webdriver,
        Gradle, and Jenkins for web applications and batch jobs based on
        Java, Groovy, Grails, and LDAP.

    -   Mentored team members on best practices in test-driven design
        for command-line and web environments.

    -   Lead the transition to an Agile/Scrum development process using
        JIRA and served as a scrum master for 2 development teams.

-   SOFTWARE ENGINEER, May 2012–October 2014. Learning Sciences
    International, Mount Joy, PA.

    -   Introduced automated tests for our hosted web application based
        on Grails, Spock, Geb, Webdriver, Bamboo, Jenkins.

    -   Mentored and lead a scrum team in Groovy, Grails, test-driven
        design, and executable documentation.

    -   Developing new features, fixing bugs in Groovy/Grails, and
        Spring web applications backed by MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

    -   Assisted to automate management and deployment of applications
        in Linux/AWS.

    -   Built load tests for our web applications with JMeter and custom
        Geb/Webdriver scripts.

    -   Built a data warehouse on PostgreSQL with ETL from MongoDB for
        reporting with Pentaho and custom solutions.

-   QA AUTOMATION ENGINEER, July 2010–May 2012. eBay Enterprise / GSI
    Commerce, King of Prussia, PA.

    -   Wrote functional tests and browser automation in Java, TestNG,
        Selenium WebDriver, Groovy, and Geb to test mobile e-commerce
        web applications (for smart phone, feature phone, and keitai).

    -   Enhanced an existing functional test framework to support
        desktop and mobile web applications.

    -   Determined new approaches for automated testing web applications
        for mobile.

-   SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER, July 2007–May 2010. AOL MapQuest,
    Lancaster, PA.

    -   Implemented corridor search and refined other spatial searches
        in SOLR and Lucene full-text search engines.

    -   Extended and redesigned the XML middle tier service to integrate
        search engines, mapping components and enhanced data sources to
        provide a complete set of search capabilities needed by
        MapQuest.com website and mobile products built on Tomcat,
        XStream, Java, and Linux.

    -   Introduced and refined the test-driven development process using
        continuous integration servers running unit tests in JUnit, and
        producing test coverage and performance metrics with Cobertura
        and JMeter.

    -   Worked closely with QA team members to build powerful automated
        tools based on Fitnesse, Groovy, Grails, and HttpClient to test
        our XML-based, middle-tier software.

    -   Mentored and trained team members in test-driven design,
        refactoring, maintaining object-oriented software, and agile
        project structure through pair programming, code reviews, and
        documentation.

    -   Developed system for merging business data from multiple sources
        and loading it into various search engines using Bash scripting,
        Java, Ruby, Groovy, JPA, Hibernate, and MySQL.

    -   Managed source control (branching and merging) across multiple
        projects and code releases with Subversion.

-   JAVA PROGRAMMER, February 2003–July 2007. Administrative Offices of
    Pennsylvania Courts, Mechanicsburg, PA.

    -   Redesigned and extended the Java middle tier of the Pennsylvania
        Court of Common Pleas court management system based on XML,
        JDBC, T-SQL, and EJB running on Sybase EAServer connecting to
        Sybase SQL Servers on Solaris.

    -   Increased long-term maintainability by extensive refactoring
        into reusable frameworks and introducing a common build system
        based on Ant.

    -   Introduced concurrent, message-based processing to the system
        that transforms data from legacy court systems into the current
        state systems using Java, message-driven EJB (MDB), and T-SQL.

    -   Trained and mentored team members on new frameworks, unit
        testing, and test-driven design.

    -   Supported production logging and alerts using Solaris shell
        scripting, Perl, and HP OpenView.

-   SENIOR PROGRAMMER/ANALYST, May 2000–February 2003. Educators Mutual
    Life & IBSi, Lancaster, PA.

    -   Designed and built a CRM portal for insurance brokers based on
        J2EE.

    -   Built a desktop application to manage insurance claims using
        Java, Swing, and DB2 (on AS/400).

    -   Trained team members in J2EE, object-oriented design, and CVS
        source control.

-   STUDENT UNIX ADMINISTRATOR AND NETWORK ANALYST, March 1997–May 2000.
    Millersville University, Millersville, PA.

    -   Maintained Solaris, HP-UX, and Linux workstations and servers
        for the Computer Science and Networking/Computer Services
        Departments of Millersville University.

    -   Installed network hardware and built monitoring tools.

-   VOLUNTEER FIRE FIGHTER, April 1991–May 2000. Yorkana Community
    Volunteer Fire Company, Yorkana, PA.

    -   Custom reporting software, emergency service, fundraising.

-   MILLERSVILLE UNIVERSITY. Bachelor of Science in Computer Science.
    May 2000.

-   Ross, Paul, R. Webster, T. Bailey, S. Conrad, M. Fiorill, J.
    Flinchbaugh, E. Velkly, “Controlling a Pepsi Vending Machine over
    the World Wide Web Using Java,” _Proceedings of the International
    AACE WebNet98 Conference_, Orlando, Florida, November 7–12, 1998.

-   Webster, Roger, P. Ross, T. Bailey, S. Conrad, M. Fiorill, J.
    Flinchbaugh, E. Velkly, “Controlling a Java Enabled Pepsi Vending
    Machine over the World Wide Web”, _Proceedings of the 25th Annual
    Conference of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society IECON ’99
    Conference_, San Jose, California, November 30–Dec. 4, 1999, Vol. 1,
    pps. 86–90.


